SimpleServerDatabase
====================

An implementation of a simple database with SQL-like operations. (Though not actually relational.) It stores its "databases" as files which are a strange mixture of straight XML and flat-file. There were several possible ways with which these database file could be worked: every time the user queried the database, it could read the file line by line and gather the information it needed; or, it could read the entirety of the database's information into memory and store it there while the user was using that database.

The decision between these was relatively difficult; (file) I/O being one of the most costly operations, the amount being done needs to be minimized. For larger databases, the first option would have something of a better average case performance. Unless the user queried the last table, the entire file wouldn't have to be read in, and the reading could be stopped when the desired table(s) were found. There would be no startup cost, but each query would be more costly. On the other hand, reading the entire database at once would be a large upfront cost (especially for larger databases), because the entire database would need to be read in when the user started the program, but each query would not be all that costly, which is better when the user is performing many queries.

Alternatively, something like a "lazy" initialization could have been done; do not read the entire database into memory when the program begins, but do it incrementally, as the user queries the database and needs particular tables. The file could be continously held open, database tables could be stored alphabetically in the xml, and the last table yet read into memory could be stored. As alphabetically later tables would be needed, the file could be read line by line and the information put into the database stored in memory. This idea had not yet surfaced by the time the second method outlined above had already been fully implemented, unfortunately. The code for reading is fairly modularized into functions, however, so it may be attempted once the rest of the program has begun to work.

This database program is meant to be an implementation of the database outlined [here](https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~wmm24/cs283_wi12/assignments/mydb.html "Drexel University"). I have already completed a newer version of this Systems Programming course but wished to attempt this project upon finding it.
